WIP: AGMS-313 - Create/Update a Data Sync Glossary (#693)
aerogear/mobile-docs: modules/ROOT/pages/_partials/sync/ref_terminology.adoc

[id='ref-terminology-{context}']

= {sync-service} Terminology

> This section describes terminology that is associated with Data Sync.

Reviewer: We need more context around why this is useful for the customers.

> Data Sync framework - Data Sync is a JavaScript framework that enables a developer to add real time data synchronization to both mobile and web clients.

Reviewer: Does it add the capability to synchronize data in real time or does it synchronize in real time. Also, if you are using rea time as an adjective, it needs to be hyphenated.

Author: ```suggestion
Data Sync framework - Data Sync is a JavaScript framework that enables a developer to add the capability to synchronize data in real-time for both mobile and web clients.
```

Author: @pnagesha wdyt ^

> The Data Sync framework comprises of two components, the _Sync Server_ and the _Sync Client_.

Author: Agreed it is simpler, however, from a technical writing pov - I would argue that we are losing the "technical speak" by simplifying it. As a compromise, I propose that we substitute "comprise" with "consist" - WDYT?

To support the use of this word, see "a framework **consists** of" from https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_framework

> The Data Sync framework comprises of two components, the _Sync Server_ and the _Sync Client_.

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/aerogear/mobile-docs/pull/758/

Sync Server - The Sync Server is a framework for building Node.js based GraphQL API.

> Sync Client - The Sync Client is a JavaScript client offering client side extensions and server side integration. The Sync Client can be integrated into frameworks such as React and Angular.

Reviewer: Do we need to say what sort of extensions and integrations?

Author: Hi @wei-lee - it would be great to provide the reader with examples for (1) extensions and (2) server-side integration - can you advise on this?

@pnagesha - do you think server side should be "server-side" too?

> Data sources - Data Sync framework is typically used in conjunction with a data source for data persistence however, an app built using the Data Sync framework works without a data source.

Reviewer: This does not explain what Data sources are. What does this do?

Author: A data source is a generic I.T. term and there's an expectation that the reader knows what this is - and considering that a developer is our target audience - we are not going to explain this in our docs. For more information, see https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_source.

To address the comment "What does this do?" - it states ".. data source for data persistence ..." - this means that a https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_source persists data :+1:

> GraphQL:: A query language for your API, and a server-side runtime for executing queries by using a type system you define for your data. An alternative approach to REST for building APIs and applications. See link:https://graphql.org/learn[GraphQL].

Reviewer: Style is diverging. All other have the object mentioned first (X is ....).

Author: What do you mean by _the object_?
